# Cryap 🦆
Cryap is a federated social network written in Rust, that is under development. It can federate with Mastodon, Pleroma and other ActivityPub compatible social networks! It also implements the Mastodon API, making it compatible with clients such as Semaphore or Tusky. And despite this, we plan to implement our own frontend.
## Why another social network?
We plan that Cryap will combine the advantages of all popular ActivityPub microblogging engines. For example, the simplicity of Mastodon, the versatility of Misskey, and the lightness more than Pleroma, because Cryap is written in Rust. We also plan to implement such functionality as [cat ears for avatars](https://github.com/mastodon/mastodon/issues/18337), articles and much more.
# Status
It is possible to publish posts without media, read them and interact with posts and users. There is support for OAuth2 (but no scopes yet). Soon we will reach a level that allows daily use and we will be able to start developing our own frontend. You can help us achieve this 😊
# Setup
We use PostgreSQL and Redis to store data, so install those first. Then run `git clone https://codeberg.org/cryap/cryap`, `cargo build --release` and copy `target/release/cryap` to any directory. Then copy `config.toml.example` to the same directory under name `config.toml` and specify necessary data there such as the database. All possible config parameters as long as we do not have complete documentation can be found [here](https://codeberg.org/cryap/cryap/src/branch/main/crates/web/src/config.rs). Run `./cryap`. If everything is ok, you have finished setting up and launched the social network. The database setup will be done automatically. Keep in mind that Cryap is actively being developed and is not ready for everyday use.
## Development
We provide `docker-compose.yml` which has all the required dependencies configured, so install Docker and Docker Compose and run using the `docker-compose up` command. You can then compile and run Cryap with `RUST_LOG=debug cargo run`. Before committing changes, format your code using `cargo fmt` and follow the `cargo clippy` hints.
